you make a bunch of YouTube videos
talking about stupidity and people right
into you wanna talk about stupidity so I
think it should come as no surprise to
me that a bunch of people took the time
to try to angle II defend the habit of
playing video games one of the things I
find instructive and slightly surreal
about this discourse is that the
rationale for not playing video games
can be found very clearly read within
the literature of video games themselves
video games which largely revolve around
a hero a protagonist who gets up one
morning and decides to save the world
who gets up one morning and decides to
rescue the princess who gets up and
decides to get involved in the
management of his village or town
cinemas on a smaller scale who decides
to make strategic planning decisions
whether military or in games like Animal
Crossing for the sake of civil society
SimCity what-have-you there's actually a
lot of social and political
responsibility built into the fabric
even of a video game as banal as Super
Mario Brothers meaning do you know who
the princess is of the country you're
living in do you know the kings and
queens and political leaders are of your
country are you involved no and as
ridiculous and be knighted as it sounds
that there are real-world situations you
can get involved in if you have this
kind of humanitarian impulse this kind
of heroic personality all over the world
at any given time I know a guy named
Joey I think he's still watched the
channel shadow terribly he has nothing
to do with Syria he's not from Syria
he's not Syrian he started to get
involved in humanitarian work in the
area surrounding Syria because that's
where the refugee camps are and someone
he started to learn the languages plural
connected to that conflict he went back
to college and got more credentials that
are relevant to that he is in his small
way making the world a better place and
you know what he could have thrown a
dart at the map he could have chosen
anywhere else other than Syria to stick
with Syria for a minute I think I might
have mentioned this years ago on the
channel
there was a Chinese entrepreneur who
started doing humanitarian work in Syria
and the reason why I know about that
story was he set up a system where he'd
ask for donations and then he just tell
people every dollar of what happened
with their particular donation and you
could imagine it's mostly really boring
stuff it's like oh here's this guy who
was living in a abandoned concrete
apartment and he had no running water
and no uh no bed to sleep on
so you donated $100 we bought this
mattress here's a photograph of the
mattress here's the receipt no we bought
some plumbing it really comes down to
this got a detail but this this Chinese
guys set up a charity that was in this
sense very 21st century a hundred
percent transparency hundred percent
accountability and in his way making it
a better place I've never I've never
heard of a video game where really the
player is the protagonist where the
protagonist is someone like the player
where the protagonist is someone who
just wants to be entertained is just
someone who wants to waste their time as
an adult in a kind of children's form of
of entertainment where you turn on the
video game and the character you're
you're interacting with the hero is just
someone who wants to sit around play
video games you know what why is that
and again it's kind of built into just
the fabric and and framing of the
picture here who is the hero in whatever
Zelda or Metroid or any any mainstream
video game it's not someone who's lazy
it's not someone who's self-indulgent
someone with tremendous self-discipline
self-sacrifice it's someone who very
often goes around the world of the
fictional world reading books about
ancient history and uncovering mysteries
and being involved in again this kind of
fictional politics as it unfolds and
Wars and the rise and fall of kingdoms
and what-have-you
you know maybe role playing games this
is especially true of Anu this is true
of some genres and and not others but I
know there also a lot of games that
glorify military service and and
what-have-you
so in my life this is kind of parallel
to the paradox we had in Buddhism
Buddhist philosophy and Buddhism as a
modern
like well you know guys we have this
religion that seems to be totally
devoted to self-sacrifice humanitarian
work helping the poor that has an
incredibly negative view of accumulating
riches of the pursuit of money and here
we are in this Buddhist temple and
everyone here is devoting all of their
time and energy to accumulating money
and we're actually doing nothing
humanitarian neither for Syria nor for
Sri Lanka nor for Myanmar or something
there even within the terabyte of
Buddhist world in that part of Asia
there's a lot of humanitarian work that
needs to be done and in most cases you
will say look it's the Catholic Church
that's going out and caring for orphans
and caring for the poor even within
these Buddhist countries somes is the
Muslim charities and we as Buddhists
aren't doing it what's up and the
answers you'd be getting would be like
well we devote absolutely all of our
time and energy to making money you know
what could I well you know again sort of
in the same sense when you look at the
protagonist in the video game what is he
or she represent when you look at the
heroes in Buddhist literature when you
look at what's being presented to you as
a model for moral or exemplary behavior
you know what what is there - damn you
like there what is the lies were
supposed to draw from it so yeah I think
there's a really strange and sad form of
self justification that goes on these
messages I'm getting from people who are
saying one of them you know what this is
this is not strumming them this is steel
Manning them the best excuse I get the
best excuse is video games are great
works of art do they stand up as works
of art so do mosaics a mosaic is a
picture made out of little fragmentary
pieces of tile how would you feel if you
knew a grown man who spent 20 hours a
week smashing up plates into little
pieces and then taking concrete or any
other fixative and putting the pieces
together into a mosaic 20 hours a week
there's no debate mosaics are works of
art the mosaics are great works of art
how would you feel if you knew someone
who spent 20 hours a week going to
museums
and looking at mosaics you know that the
great art issue is irrelevant I know
what may seem well but it may seem like
morally it's the most meaningful thing
in the world for you to stand up and
defend this now again I'm not saying
mosaics have to have zero role in your
life
how many mosaics did I see in museums
this year I spent a few minutes looking
at a few different folks this year um
but it's even more pathetic if you take
the next step and ask okay who is
depicted in the mosaic what virtue or
what kind of person oh it's it's
Heracles sorry more commonly it's
Hercules it's this hero it's this person
of outstanding personal courage and
valor and self-discipline is going out
and trying to make the world a better
place and sometimes just literally
trying to rescue the princess or what
have you there's maybe this symbol of
civic virtue you know whatever you want
to say there's someone who's engaged and
as a sense of mission is trying to save
the planet or save the village or help
their town or help their city it's
someone who cares it's someone who's not
spending 20 hours a day sitting at a
computer or sitting on a couch in front
of a television just interested in their
own amusement it's it's Hercules it's a
hero couldn't you ask the person this
hypothetical person who's addicted to
making mosaics at what point are you
gonna put the tools down and are you
gonna try to become like Hercules
yourself instead of spending all your
time playing games with little pieces of
colored glass